## Table of contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
- [Copyright and license](#copyright-and-license)

## Introduction

Selected CTTV projects from the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and the EMBL-EBI submits computationally generated, human curated and experimentally derived data
containing evidence linking genes to common and rare diseases. 
Submitted CTTV Data must be validated against the JSON Schema that specifies how the information should be exchanged between providers and the CTTV.

The json-schema-validation python package was developed to support the CTTV data collection process.
An existing python project called [python_jsonschema_objects] (https://github.com/cwacek/python-jsonschema-objects) automatically binds classes to JSON schemas 
for use in python. This can be used to validate a specific JSON file on the fly. This will also create python classes on the fly that can be instanciated.

We have developed a similar python project except that the validation is customised to CTTV requirements and the classes that bind to JSON schema objects are generated before 
with custom validation procedures.

## Quick start

First, install tox with 'pip install tox' or 'easy_install tox'. Tox is a generic virtualenv management and test command line tool that 
CTTV use for running tests and for continuous integration of the software components we develop.

The CTTV validation package is generated by a python script located in src/python/generateCTTVpackage.py
Run this program to generate the cttv classes representing the evidenceString, biologicalObject, biologicalSubject JSON objects.

## Validating JSON files

Once the current version of the validation package is installed, you can test the validation of an existing CTTV datasource by running the program located
in src/python/validateJsonSchema.py

gunzip -c <PATH TO FILE>/cttv018_ibd_gwas_20141128_formatted.json.gz | python validateJsonSchema.py

## Bugs and feature requests

Have a bug or a feature request?

## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2014-2015 CTTV. Code released under [the Apache2 license](http://localhost:8003/tvdev/json-schema-validation/raw/master/LICENSE). 
Docs released under [Creative Commons](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/docs/LICENSE).


